Good morning. This regular meeting of
the Lonear College System Board of
Trustees is now called to order at 10:31
a.m. We'll now have the pledge of
allegiance. I've asked the Lonear
College Foundation uh director Nicole
Goce to give the pledge.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Thank
you members. I'll now do a roll
call. Trusty Salavar is absent. Trusty
Wilson
Thank you. Trusty Brousard present.
Thank you. Trusty Stolman is absent.
Trustee Mesa here. Thank you. Trusty
Mario Morio. Thank you. Trusty vote.
Thank you. Trustee Kaine present. Thank
you. And Mike Sullivan present. We have
a quorum. Chancellor Castillo. Has
notice for this meeting been posted?
Chairman Sullivan. I certify that the
notice of this meeting has been posted
in accordance with the law. Thank you
very much. The next item on the agenda
is public comment. and Mr. Fraen, board
council, before we call anyone up to
speak, could you walk us through process
and procedure for presentation and um
trustee responses to public speakers,
please?
Sure, Chairman. As just as a reminder of
the open meetings act, the board isn't
able to uh respond or engage with public
uh speakers, particularly with matters
that are not on the agenda. So, you're
here to listen to the speakers and take
whatever information they want to
provide. Uh, but the board isn't able to
engage in dialogue back and forth with
the speakers. Uh, to the extent there's
factual information that can be provided
uh to the speakers, the chancellor's
office can handle that after the meeting
um as the case may be. Thank you very
much, Miss Barnett. Has anyone signed up
to offer public comment? Yes, chair. We
have four public speakers today uh in
person with our first one being Dr. Tafi
Olanade.
Okay. And as he makes his way to the
podium, I'll read this. Welcome. In
accordance with board policy. Each
speaker is allowed to speak for up to
five minutes. There is a timer on the
podium with lights. When the light turns
red, your time has expired.
Yeah. Good morning, sir. Good morning.
Good morning, all of you. Uh I will say
once again want to see to speak Spanish
speaking
people. Uh I came to United States I spo
my school in United States like become a
doctor and I told my
son you got to go to community college
like I did before you go to
university. But my son's encounter with
Dr. Karrari was so abusive that I cannot
even imagine this
situation. When they call me from work
when I call I say I'm looking for dean
for student affairs they directed me to
Dr. Kerrari. The way he was talking to
me I said I don't I said you are not
competent for the position you are
in I don't even know his qualification.
Oh, if somebody put Dr. Kari there to be
the Ding structure for science, physical
science and engineering with
a with a philosophy degree, that's a
heart
degree. It's not qualified.
You are killing our
children just to pay your own
bill. Let's put that one
aside. All the stuff on the line is not
going
together. I keep on looking. I told my
son, "Drop the class." He said, "Daddy,
I'm going to make it because my son, my
first son came here to uh to Lone Star.
You can go and check his record. They
exempt him from college algebra when he
did placement
test. My wife graduated from
here because I told him what to
do before he got
his degree from
your he make 220,000 a year.
But if you are putting your family to a
job they don't qualify for, you are
messing up our children's life. I goes
to court. I don't go
back. Dr. Kari abused my son to the
extent that after doing a test, he will
not he will not see. He will not he just
see the grade. He will not sue the
review of the grade. If he lying to you,
her recorded I take a picture of
everything. There's no point for me to
lie. When my wife came down here, I
didn't come to
you because they had right. But when you
don't act right, I have to come to the
board because the president or the
chancellor may be related to people they
put into jobs. So they have the power to
do anything they want. I'm not saying
that's the
assumption. Dr. Karia bill was out of
control. But I'm going to say something
to
you all. all your
lawyers. Dr. Kar violated the federal
law. We don't have a federal law no
more. It violated the state law of my
son's right of
school. Nobody should not be exposed to
see their examination when they
finish is wrong. And that's what even to
the extent it they deviated from
syllabus when I call the D uh the share
oh we have a lot of things doing we
change syllabus so many times uh we
don't even know we deviated from it he
can
appeal as soon as we appeal Dr. cannot
respond. That's the final grade. But I'm
going to tell you one
thing, you don't deviate. Go and look at
your section
uh go and look at your VG academic
appeals
uh VG VG13 based on based for academic
appeal. You don't deviate from the
syllabus. You don't change the rule of
the game in the middle of the game which
Dr. Kari did to fail my
son. It's
wrong. We are to encourage them to be a
better person in
life. Please
help. Some of these must be related to
Dr. Car to get that position is not
qualified for it.
real. You cannot put a history professor
to be in charge of
physics. That is
wrong. I give them I want to
see and we accept the final exam which
is compressive and the own work we do
50/50. Then before I accept the final
exam he did, I want to see whether they
manipulate the
answers. Then anything that come out of
it, that's final. Once again, I repeat
myself, the classwork 50% and the final
exam which is comprehensive
50%. Will be my son's grade. I'm not
going to go further.
uh chancellor please look into people
you sign for a position that they
qualify for it. the share of the maths
department in Kingwood. He
got it doesn't have a M it doesn't have
masters only 18 credit hours in in
in maths. The teacher that taught my son
got a bachelor degree in first degree
and he got a
MAT master art of teaching and in his
teaching math he qualify because the law
require him to teach for junior
college. Sir, I'm begging
you. If we don't do it
right, the future of the children is at
stake. Don't let these people sit down
there and be paying their own bill and
our children will be in depth
forever. Hey, when I came here, I
deliver bread for Mrs. Be for 19
years. And I still went to school, I
went to community college till I get my
PhD.
You remember nobody knows
tomorrow and we say it in Spanish. You
don't say mayana sir I leave everything
I gave it to Mrs. Fatima how they
deviate how everything was done wrong. I
gave it to them to give it to you to
look at it. The law says they must not
deviate and you must not discriminate.
And when next time I come I tell you the
reason why you deviate. Thank you and
God bless you. Thank you very much, sir.
Miss Barnett, we have a ne second
speaker. Yes, our second speaker is Dr.
John Bergdoff here in person.
You heard the disclaimer of five
minutes. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you.
Good morning. I am Dr. John Bergduff,
uh, president of the American Federation
of Teachers here at Lonear
College. Cena DA, no days left. Monday
was the closing session of the 89th
Texas Legislature, and after five months
of frenzied activity, the capital in
Austin now sits quiet.
This session saw a dizzying array of
legislation and higher education was
right in the spotlight all spring. It
is, excuse me, it is going to take some
time before all of us can fully take in
what all the consequences to Lonear will
be. So, I will make only some brief and
preliminary remarks for now. Although
there is much critical legislation to
comprehend, I'm going to focus today on
Senate Bill
37. SB37 passed its final vote just this
past Saturday after a number of
lastminute changes which most of us,
most definitely including myself, have
not yet fully
digested. This much can be said with
certainty. SB37 dramatically shifts
decision-making authority in ways higher
education has never seen
before. Respectfully addressing the
members of the board, SB37 shifts into
your hands hiring and promotion
decisions that have historically been
the purview of the administration and
curriculum decisions that have
historically been in the hands of the
faculty.
My appeal to you is one that I believe
you will agree with. Please use your new
authority
cautiously. Rely on the wisdom of
administrators and faculty that will be
presenting proposals for you to approve.
The work of a college is done in the
trenches by the professors in the
classes, the staff who support students
outside of class, and the administrators
who coordinate all of that activity.
You are likely to face new pressures
from outside sources who have never
taught a class or advised a student, but
who think they know how education should
be run. Stand strong and trust your
employees. In return, your employees,
especially those of us in the union,
will stand strong for
you. To the college presidents in the
room, I would like to speak on behalf of
my siblings who serve on our faculty
senates.
SB37 gives you the obligation to appoint
officers and members to the faculty
senates, upending a long tradition of
independence in shared
government. With all respect and
appreciation for your considerable
talents and accomplishments, the
collective voice of your faculty is
critical to the success of our colleges.
And that voice needs to be as clear and
bold as it can possibly be. Your
leadership is strongest when you listen
to voices that ask you the hardest
questions. As you are now tasked with
these appointments, I'd like to propose
a model based on Europe's constitutional
monarchies. Legally, King Charles
appoints the prime minister of the
United
Kingdom. However, he only has one
candidate, the man or woman chosen by
his or her peers to take that role.
Under British practice and tradition,
the king accepts the prime minister the
people have chosen through a fair and
open election. I hope you will follow
that model to preserve the autonomous
voice of your faculty as much as
possible under this new
law. We and our students face many
challenges due to decisions made in
Austin and also
Washington, most especially the loss of
instate tuition for our DACA students.
Unequivocally, I believe that Senate
Bill 37 is a very unfortunate mistake
that will hurt the viability of higher
education in
Texas. What we can control at Lonear
College is how we handle the dynamics of
shifting power. If we do so wisely and
prudently, trusting the folks who do the
work every day, we can still be a place
where employees thrive and students can
get the support they need to achieve
their dreams.
Thank you so much for your kind
consideration.
Thank you very much. Miss Marett, if
you'd call the third speaker, please.
Okay, this is for Sataro O'Neil Thomas.
Okay, I'm going to read this while you
walk up as a formality. Welcome. In
accordance with board policy, each
speaker is allowed to speak for up to
five minutes. There's a timer on the
podium with lights. When the light turns
red, your time is expired. Thank you.
Please proceed. Good morning to the
board of trustees of Lonear College
System, to chancellor Mario Castillo and
the community. My name is Sataro O'Neal
Thomas and I'm here as an advocate for
my sorority sister, Dr. Charerelle
Lster. We serve together in Z Alpha
Omega here in Houston and I have always
known Dr. Ler to be kind, Christian, and
a friend. Dr. Ler is a 25year silver
star member of Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority Incorporated. She is a servant
leader, a hard worker, and her
credibility is unmatched.
I've seen Charelle present at numerous
events locally, regionally, and across
this nation. She always does a superior
job because she is well
prepared. Dr. Ler is prepared when she
teaches a
class. She's prepared when she's sharing
information about health and nutrition
because she wants the best for everyone.
Dr. Ler is prepared when we are serving
the community, packing backpacks for
underprivileged
children, and I'm sure she's equally
prepared here at Lonear because that's
just who she is. At a conference Dr. Ler
and I attended two years ago in New
Orleans, I was trying to convince
Charelle to stay an extra day so we can
get some more beignes.
Charelle continued to brush her hair
back into her ponytail after putting on
her work suit and told me without
hesitation that she needed to catch the
next flight because she had prepared to
go to work. Our
556 chapter members speak very highly
and respect Charelle Ler. She's my
roommate when we travel and I'm never
concerned if she's going to pay me for
her half of the room because she's
honest, reliable, and of course, she's
prepared. Lonear
College, you're blessed to have Dr.
Charelle Ler as part of your faculty.
I'm sure if you add the Lonear system,
Falcony and students, I'm sure everyone
here speaks highly of her as we do in
Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority and as I do
as her friend. Thank you for your time.
Thank you very much.
And Miss Barnett, if you'd announce the
fourth and last speaker, please. This is
for Dr. Margie Blount.
And I'll read this again. Welcome. In
accordance with board policy, each
speaker is allowed to speak for up to
five minutes. There is a timer on the
podium with lights. When the light turns
red, your time is expired. Thank you.
Please proceed. Good morning to
Chancellor Castillo and members of the
board of trustees and esteemed guest. My
name is Dr. Margie Blunt and I have the
honor of serving as presidentelect of
the Houston Lady Lions Club. I come
before you today to speak in support of
a truly outstanding leader, Dr.
Charerelle Ler. Dr. Ler currently serves
our organization as a membership chair
and has recently been elected as vice
president. Her dedication to service and
leadership is not only admirable, it's
transformative. She has touched
countless lives in our community through
her
volunteerism. from supporting youth at
the Sunshine Kids FA facility to
uplifting seniors through Seniors on the
Move to providing encouragement for
women at the women's home and bringing
joy to patients at the MD Anderson
Pediatric Prom. Dr.
Ler shows up with compassion, purpose,
and
commitment. Her impact doesn't stop
there. She has organized district-wide
Lions Club events, including the
impactful hopeful bags, which provides
care and packages to Houston's homeless
population. Additionally, she lends her
leadership by serving as a guiding lion,
helping to strengthen other clubs in our
region. She has been named uh rece
recipient of the Melvin Jones award for
in our Lions
Club. Dr. Ler is a servant leader in
every sense of the word. Her work
embodies values of integrity,
dedication, and excellence that I know
that this board holds dear. I urge you
to recognize her leadership, her
character, her extraordinary
contributions that she continued to make
both in and beyond the Lonear College
community. Thank you for your time and
your consideration.
Thank you very much, ma'am. Appreciate
it.
Miss Barnett, any additional public
speakers? No, sir. That is the um last
of our public speakers for today. Okay.
Thank you very very much. Uh trustees,
we'll now move on with the agenda. Next
item number six, approval of the
minutes. Is now time for approval of the
minutes of the May 1st, 2025 regular
meeting. Are there any corrections to
the minutes? Seeing none, there being no
corrections, do I have a motion to
approve the minutes after motion by
trustee Wilson. Do I have a second?
Second trust me. Yes, sir.
Oh, vote. I'm sorry. Pardon me. Thank
you. Trusty vote. Have a motion, a
second. We'll now take a vote. Trustees,
when I call your name, please say I,
nay, or abstain. Uh, trustee Salvar is
absent. Trusty Wilson. Thank you. Trusty
Brousard. I. Thank you. Trusty Sto is
absent. Trusty Mesa. I. Thank you.
Trusty Mario. I. Thank you. Trusty Vote.
I. Thank you. Trusty Kaine. I. Thank
you. Trusty Sullivan. I. The motion
passes and the minutes are approved.
We'll now move to section seven, special
reports and announcements. Chancellor
Castillo.
Yes, sir. Thank you. Um, let's start
with I think it was last month we had 19
semi finalists um from the Jack Cook
Scholarship. I have a really hard time
pronouncing that to be honest with you.
Um, I wanted to let the board know that
we had four winners. So, four finalists.
Um,
which tied the country for the number
one um amount of finalists for mo
school. There was only five in Texas and
four of them um attend Lonear College
and so
um yeah so I just wanted to give you
that update. Um we didn't want to
interrupt their summer vacation with
asking them to come to the meeting so
that's why they're not here. Um also
wanted to recognize Dr. uh Christy Vienn
who the Houston Business Journal
recently named her a CFO award recipient
which is awarded to financial leaders in
greater Houston who have demonstrated
exceptional leadership, strategic vision
and financial stewardship within their
organization. Um and she's going to be
recognized along with 30 honores in the
inaugural ceremony on July 23rd, 2025.
And so we have a table so if you'd like
to join us uh to give
[Music]
Dr. Ven um will be in touch with that.
Also, we have some um new additions.
We've re for the faculty. We repurposed
positions. These are not new positions.
Um for those of you that don't know, we
essentially had two positions that we've
now recycled into something else. So,
they're not new positions, but they're
new human beings um to the chancellor's
office. And I want to recognize them.
They work in what is now the office of
the board leaison. So, for the public,
let me tell you, um, I'm going to say
this as respectfully and candidly as
possible. The board keeps us
busy. Um, and so there's a lot of
requests, there's a lot of oversight,
and there's a lot of questions about the
agenda and essentially what we're up to,
which is as it should be. So, in order
to make sure that um, Miss Barnett had
more than enough help, we have hired or
she has hired two new people, and I want
to recognize them. So, Vanessa Reed
There's Vanessa. Hello, Vanessa.
So, Vanessa began on May 16th. She's a
former board coordinator for the Houston
Galveston area council. She's a former
employee of the city of Sugarland
Commissioner's Court in the County
Judges Office. She holds a master's
degree in public education and a
bachelor's degree in business and
Christian counseling. Uh she recently
married, has a 13-year-old daughter, and
is active active in the autism
community. So, welcome, Vanessa. glad to
have you aboard. Um, and then the second
person is Maria Angela Cordero Pinto.
[Applause]
Um, and she just started three days ago
on June 2nd. Um, so she's a former
employee of Spring Drag Spring Branch
ISD. Uh, she worked in community
engagement. She's a former employee of
Florida International University working
in board governance and strategic
initiatives. Uh she holds a bachelor's
degree in public relations, advertising,
and applied communications. Uh she
enjoys cooking, party planning, and
gardening. Looks forward to owning a
farm one day. Um all right. And the last
person is um we have a new part-time
clerk, an intern. Um because we pay all
of our interns at Lonear College, so we
call them part-time clerks. Um Deliria
Smith began on June 4th. Uh she's a
recent graduate of LSE Houston North
Victory and Victory Early College High
School, achieving an associate of arts
and teaching alongside her high school
diploma. So before I keep going, let me
tell you where I met Deliria. There she
is. Let's give her a round of
applause. So I met Deliria at an event
actually that a community member was
putting on for me and um they had people
sort of coming up and talking about what
they wanted to be essentially when they
grew up. and Deler, I believe you were
16 or 17 at the time. She said that she
wanted to be a community college
chancellor. Um, and so I said, "All
right, well, you're a minor. We can't
hire you until you turn 18, so hit me
back up after you're 18." And so, to her
credit, uh, as soon as she turned 18,
she reached out. And so, she's our, um,
summer intern here. And she intends to
enlist in the United States Marine Corps
as soon as she's done with her
internship. And again, her aim is to
become a community college chancellor.
Um, she's a volunteer tutor and she
volunteers with Alan Boats. And so,
she's on her way. And I can tell you
that one of my dreams is one day be able
to say that the chancellor of Lonear
College is one of its former students.
And so, Del, you're on your way. Thank
you for lending us your trust and your
labor. It's always really important when
young people trust us with their careers
and I take that very seriously. So,
those are the recognitions. Um, Nicole,
will you come up please? Nicole
Robinson. And I'm calling audibles, too,
by the way. I like when the meetings
don't aren't rehearsed, right? So, when
you call audles in the middle of them,
um I think they go a little bit more
lively. So, we had this foundation star,
Gayla, on May 3rd of 2025, and I have
this nice little flyer that her office
put together. So, we raised $534,994.
And I can tell you that before I became
chancellor, I'm kind of a reclusive
hermit and I became chancellor in spite
of that. But before I became chancellor,
our gayla was really the only gayla that
I went to. Now as the chancellor, I go
to many gaylas. Um I'm gay out, right?
But I'll tell you this, our gayla is so
nice and once you start going to other
gaylas, it's a little bit like
traveling. You kind of appreciate home
more. Um and so I wanted to recognize
the amazing work that you and your staff
do. Argala is literally my favorite one
and I'm not just saying that because I'm
the chancellor. It's heartwarming. It's
touching. People always follow up and
give us great feedback about how it
runs. So, anything that you would like
to add about the gayla that I haven't
mentioned? I think our favorite part
this year is we bumped up our student
experience and we had a student MC for
the first time. We had some really great
student performers and so engaging
students more will be a goal moving
forward to showcase the work. Yeah. And
if I if I remember correctly, wasn't
there a donor that was so impressed with
the musical talents of our students from
Tombball actually that they made a a
donation, an unplanned donation or
something like that? Right. I'm going to
let you tell it cuz I'm going to mess
up. There was a donor in the audience
who loved the performance. The students
uh had just finished their production of
Hello Dolly and so our guests had a
little snippet of that on stage. They
loved that so much that they made sure
to award a scholarship to every one of
the students who performed on that stage
for the fall semester and they made a
donation to the performing arts program
at Tombball to thank them for being a
part of it. Wow.
Thank you, Nicole, on behalf of the
entire institution. Thank you, ma'am.
And thank you for being a good support
about the audible. I appreciate it. All
right. Um, we also had spring
commencements from 810 uh from May 8th
uh to May 10th. Um, and I'm really proud
to say last two years ago we had 11,000
graduates. Uh, this year we had
13,000.
Um, and I'll tell you for those of you
that missed it, there was also a
surprise chancellor uh musical um number
at the Spanish graduation. Yes, folks, I
play trumpet for those of you that did
not know. and I went down there and I
played with the mariachi and they
carried me. I'm not gonna lie to you. I
played third part. Um I was not playing
the melody. Um but it was great and we
had 13,000. So I think that next year
we're going to shoot for 15,000 um a
2,000 increase from last so that we can
graduate 15,000 students. But they got
to earn it. We're not going to give it
to them. They got to earn it. Right?
because one of the things that I always
talk about is if we graduate people and
they don't and they're not successful,
then we did not do them a service that
they hired us to do. And so, um, yeah,
so that leads directly to Dr. Vienn's
point with HBA. That's 2,000 more
outcomes than we had the year before.
And it's really the ultimate outcome,
right? The students graduate um and
hopefully they have um they get better
jobs. We have Junth holiday coming up.
Um, and tomorrow, actually June, yeah,
tomorrow's June 6. So, tomorrow is the
anniversary of the landing at Normandy.
Correct. Right. Yes. Yes. Someone
confirmed. Yes. Okay. So, one of the
traditions that I started is that we
lower the flags. Um, so for the board,
um, for tomorrow and chief, I'm
directing you to lower the flags
tomorrow in honor of, uh, the landing at
Normandy. um for all of those American
heroes, really world heroes that gave
their lives. Um and I can't really talk
about it because then it's such a
there's so much honor in that. But
anyway, I'm going to move on. Um Junth,
we're celebrating from June 19th to uh
the 22nd. Um and I'm tagging along on a
Junth field trip. So if the board would
like to come, it's next Thursday. I'm
calling so many audles here. Um if
you're free next Thursday, come on down
with us. We're going to go down uh to
Galveastston, I believe. and I have had
nothing to do with the planning. I've
just been told where to show up. So, I
can't give you more details, but I
believe there's a museum involved and
really we're going down there to sort of
learn more about what Junth is along
with students and professors. And then,
of course, we have Independence Day
holiday and we don't have a July board
meeting. So, please don't show up in
July uh for you will be alone. Um and
that's all I have chair. Thank you.
Good. Thank you. There's a lot going on
and we appreciate you being as involved
as you are. We'll now move on to
Chancellor's Cabinet. Lonear College
Kingwood President Melissa Gonzalez will
be coming up to the podium for
presentation. Good morning. I am excited
to be here. I'm Melissa
Gonzalez, Chair Sullivan, Board of
Trustees, Chancellor Castillo,
colleagues, guests. It is my honor to be
presenting today. I will be sharing the
life-changing opportunities Lonear
College offers in our continuing
education division. Each of the campuses
except online houses welcoming CE
offices which make it so easy for our
families in our communities to begin
their educational
journey.
Oops. Oh, sorry.
I will be speaking about of course data
looking at data uh talking about our all
program and of course we have to talk
about success stories achievement events
and I'm going to recognize the directors
but more importantly we're going to talk
about what is CE and I did want to share
to you the inaugural certified nursing
assisting ceremony that we had back in
December at the LSC East Aldine
center. So, continuing education
consists of fasttrack
certificates and they lead to a it's a
high demand highpaying career. Each
program includes either an industry
recognized certification or a national
occupational accreditation. We also have
uh a lot of CE programs that are
completed in six months or less. And
under the C umbrella, we do have the
ESOL program, high school equivalency,
which is a GED program, but also the
Academy for Lifelong Learning or the AL
program. I wanted to share with you over
30 short-term certificates again ranging
from A+ certification to EMT to welding
to phabbotomy, personal trainer, you
name it, we have
it. I also wanted to share with you our
modes as far as instructional mode for C
programs. can see we are face tof face
the majority of the CE programs are face
toface we have some online at 18% this
past year and I also want to introduce
to you the highlex the highlex model is
a primarily face-to-face class but it
offers the students the flexibility to
attend online in real time if needing
needed so if they're taking care of an
ill child or they're not feeling well
themselves this ensures students get
engaged without missing a class due to
unforeseen circumstances so during the
time that they would be attending class
face to face, they could go online and
take the class and not miss out on the
class. So, we're excited to be
increasing that number of high flex
options for our
students. I wanted to show uh to you our
enrollment. As you can
see, our student enrollment has been
steadily increasing each year and we're
still actively enrolling for summer
term. So, we're going to see those
numbers
increase. For our completers, our
workforce programs are also growing. uh
and I should say steadily uh is
maintaining steadily increasing each
year and um we are expecting more
completers this summer as there's more
um programs being completed this
summer. Our GED and ESO count, as you
can see, our numbers have declined
primarily due to a reduced grant funding
for free ESOL and GED courses supported
by HGAC. Unfortunately, further funding
cuts are anticipated for this coming
year. We are working on getting more
local funding and scholarships to make
up for the reduction in grants. I also
want to share this beautiful quote from
one of our ESOL students from Houston
North, Munami Ahmed, who really gives
credit to the program for giving her the
reading and writing skills she needs.
I wanted to share also about our
academic academy of lifelong learning
which started in LSC
Montgomery. This program has grown every
year with over 500 classes offered
across our campuses and centers. Adults
Aed 50 and over can enjoy unlimited
access for over just $25 per year
regardless of location. So they can go
to any location and it'll be just $25 a
year.
Um, of course, I cannot um end a a
presentation without talking about our
students. So, I did want to share with
you more student success stories from
our campuses and I just highlighting our
CMA program uh kind of the before and
then of course they graduated also in
December. Again, the inaugural class of
clinical medical assistants at East
Aldine Center. All right, we'll get
started with um Lonear College
Scyfare. We have um Miss Khloe Lynn.
Khloe recently began a position in
engineering and earned her AutoCAD
draftsman certificate to enhance her
skills and build confidence in her new
role. She's doing great in her new
position. And in Houston North, I wanted
to share with you that uh Mr. Raphael
Flores is uh was part of an empowering
solar grant program based at the LSC
Victory Center.
This program prepares students for
career in the fast growing solar
industry, specifically in solar panel
installation. With this training, Mr.
Flores is on his way to rewarding an
impactful career.
representing Lonear College Kingwood
Lucto Via FA. She is currently in her
second year as a dental hygiene student,
but her journey began on campus as a CE
dental assisting student. After earning
her nationally recognized dental
assisting certificate and gaining
several years of hands-on experience,
she chose to further her education.
Lucto is not only advancing her uh
advancing in our dental hygiene program,
she's also part of a special cohort
pursuing a bachelor's degree in dental
hygiene through a partnership between
LSC and University of North
Texas. At
Montgomery and home of the Mavericks, we
proudly represent Chalet Shunaman.
Grateful for the opportunities she has
received. Chalet supported by her
dedicated instructor, Miss Williams. She
is now on her path to a fulfilling
career as a clinical medical
assisting. At North Harris, we have
Janice Gera. She describes her
experience in the certified nursing
assistant program as one of the best and
expresses deep gratitude for the warm
and welcoming environment she
encountered. Thanks to this experience,
Janice is now on her way to a rewarding
career in the healthc care
field. In Tombball, we have Mr. Vincent
Morrison. He gained the skills and
knowledge needed to successfully pass
his certification exam for sterile
processing technician. He described his
experience as highly positive with
convenient access to his to the program
and also to nearby clinics.
And finally, at University Park, we have
Jamal Jaquan James. Now, this is a
really special program because we
partnered with a local nonprofit called
Petra Cares, and we developed a
continued education workforce program
called the Automotive Lubrication
Technician Program. Jamal participated
in this intensive six-week program that
offers both hands-on training and
guarantees employment for him and all
participants who successfully complete
the course.
So, as you can see, our programs are
truly transforming lives, and these
achievements deserve to be celebrated.
Individual recognition ceremonies are
held at LSD Kingwood and at Montgomery,
but and while other campuses honor their
students successes during annual
commencement
ceremonies. I would also like to
recognize the continuing education
directors at our campuses along with the
program directors who oversee specific
CE programs. If you are here with us
today or anybody in the CE department,
please stand so we could acknowledge
you. We also have CE cataloges for
anyone interested in learning more about
our offerings or registering for
classes. So, would you all stand up?
Let's give a round of applause to our CE
directors. We also have um program
directors also here. Thank you. So, I
just want to show with you the we have
cataloges. We we actually do have
regular cataloges uh for our seed
programs. So before I share my final
thoughts, I want to highlight a recent
celebration at the East Aldine Center
just last week. I wasn't able to get
pictures because I had to submit this
before. I had the pleasure of inviting
today uh the top graduate from our very
first bilingual electroc cardiogram
monitor technician or EKG class held at
our East Aldine Center. Mariela Bedoya,
a proud East Aldine native and MacArthur
High School alumni. Mariela dedicated
Saturdays only in a March, April and the
early May of this year from 9 to 1 to
complete the program. She is now a
certified EKG technician ready to begin
her career in this growing healthcare
field. Mariela, would you please stand
so we can recognize your achievement.
Thank you so much for the opportunity to
share life-changing programs available
at Lonear College through continuing
education. Today, families no longer
need to spend one, two, or even three
years to gain skills and knowledge
needed to pursue their dreams. Many of
our programs lead to nationally
recognized credentials in just a few
weeks, opening the door to rewarding and
fulfilling careers in such a short
amount of time. I'll leave you with a
quote from Betsy Mendoza, a December
2024 graduate from our very first
clinical medical assisting program at
the East Aldine Center where she says
that being in the medical field was
something I have always dreamed of since
I was little. Helping others and being
able to make a positive impact on their
lives has always been my dream. We are
making dreams come true through our CE
program. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Dr. Gonzalez. Any questions
or comments, trustees? Okay, appreciate
it. Great. Yeah, thank you so much.
Okay, we'll now move to board members,
trustees, do you have any special
reports or announcements? I'll start
down on my right if you don't mind and
then come in. Uh, Trusty Brousard, any
thing to report on or announcements?
Thank you. Trusty vote. Thank you.
Trusty Wilson.
So, um I was able to attend the um the
East Aldine ceremony they just had last
week and it was really um exciting and
inspiring because we were there. there.
I was with Trusty Sadivar and um it was
almost standing room only with family
and you could just feel the the hope
that they had and the and the love and
expression they were it was really it
was really really nice and I appreciate
um being able to witness it because
families were crying and grandfathers
was like smile smile you know they were
really excited because they they can see
the hope and they can feel the and the
inspiration was there and they and they
had the thought and idea like I can do
this or I we can do this and maybe I
should you know cuz they even offered um
for the families to even come you know
just to be a part of Lonear and I
thought that was awesome because
sometimes people don't feel comfortable
enough to or they don't feel like they
can be a part of something but they see
that that kind of was like a family
environment and it was really really it
was really really special and I
appreciate it. So thank you for the
environment. Those are kind words. Thank
you Trusty Mesa.
Yes. So, I just want to share um my
experience at the Lonear College
Tombball graduation. How welcoming
everyone was. Uh how beautiful the
graduation ceremony was out in the open
air. Um and obviously the fireworks are
really cool as well. And um I guess for
me being a new trustee and being fairly
young and
um presiding uh over some of these
commencement ceremonies, it was really
uh an incredible experience for me. And
I didn't realize how
um um I don't want to say taxing, but
how sore you can be after standing for
many hours and shaking many hands. Uh
but it was really cool to see, you know,
all the smiling faces, the young
graduates from the early colleges and
then uh our Lonear students and then
also the Spanish language uh ceremony
which uh I had even mentioned to the
chancellor how uh amazing it would have
been to have had that, you know, when I
graduated 10 years ago for my parents,
but I'm so glad to be able to be a part
of it now. and I saw the chancellor's
graduation sneakers and I got to hear
him play trumpet. Uh and so it was just
a really uh amazing experience for me
and and I'm very grateful to be here and
and for everybody's support to our
students. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Trusty Mason, Trusty Kaine. In a similar
way, was able to attend uh several at
the Berry Center, commencement
ceremonies at the Berry Center as well
as Mo Campbell and great events. Um,
just want to thank uh the college
presidents and all of the people behind
the scenes who uh who put those events
together and did such a terrific job.
Thank you, Trusty Kane. Trusty Maria
also attended several of the uh
commencement exercises and uh I as
always it's it's just a incredible way
to really feel what we do here you know
and uh the connection with that the the
people and the the families like like
you said someone mentioned earlier u my
colleague Wil Trusty Wilson about just
no matter it never gets old let me say
it that way it's always incredible I got
to go to King the Kingwood. Uh you all
did a great great job. Um North Harris.
Awesome. And um and the first I didn't
get to go last year to the uh Spanish
one. So this to me this this was the
first one. Uh so I didn't know what to
expect. Um I didn't expect our
chancellor to play the trumpet. That's
for sure. Was it was it the trumpet? Is
that the instrument? And I asked him, I
said, "Uh, do you have any more any more
any more secrets? Any more things, you
know, to reveal?" And he says, "Stay
tuned." So, uh, no. So, I think it was
it was all in good fun.
Um, I always look forward to it to to
the commencements. But, uh, the main
thing I wanted to say, I want to thank
um, everyone who played a role and put
them together because this is a lot of
work. Um,
uh, which one was it? I I carried lights
and and went outside and who it was a
bachelor's. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, I
need I forgot to mention that one. Thank
you. Yeah, that that was fun as well.
So, yeah, just want to commend everyone
involved in that and look forward to
next time. Thanks. Thank you, Trusty
Maria. I just have a couple comments. Um
I attended several graduations as well.
It's always fun. It never gets old. I am
continuing to work with Dr. Gonzalez on
the Kingwood community event and I
encourage my colleagues here to work
with your respective uh campus
president. Make sure that you have the
resources you want. Uh if you run into
budgeting questions, you can direct
those to either the chancellor or Dr.
Vienn. But uh Dr. Gonzalez really
looking forward to our event. It's going
to be great and appreciate you taking
the lead on it. I have said from the
beginning this is her event, not my
event. So it's going to be successful
because of that. Uh so good work and we
look forward to it. And then lastly,
since we do not meet next month in July,
wish everybody a successful summer, take
time off, recharge, spend time doing
what you want to do, and uh just get
ready for the fall semester because
it'll be here before you know it. So,
thank you. That's the end of our
comments. Uh chair. Yes, sir. I wonder
if I could come back on Yes, sir. Chair
recognizes trustee vote.
Uh I I I went to uh several of the
graduations and I just had
to I've been doing this a long time, but
I've got a
uh personal
best. I got to shake the hands
of
1,400
plus
graduates this year and that's that's my
personal best.
Well, let me let me say I went to
Montgomery Lonear and Dr. U. Reedart did
a fantastic job. I I have to compliment
her. And I think this was the
the highest number so far of graduates.
Is that right? It was 600 plus. What?
620 I think
graduates. How many?
625. And it was a a lot of standing, but
it was wonderful. And we got to and uh
Trustee V was there as well. and uh but
uh it it was fabulous to be a part of
that and to shake hands with all of
those graduates and uh so thank you for
letting us be a part of that. Thank you
Trusty Brousard and Trusty Vote. Uh next
item we're going to do our board
committees and a custom that I've
started. I'm just every month and as as
much to give an opportunity to the
committee chairs to talk about their
committee. It highlights the work that
our committees are doing and will be
doing going forward. So I'll call on the
chair of each committee and you either
say what uh any report or you just pass.
So audit and finance we have a meeting
scheduled here in the next couple of
weeks. I'll now call on let's see policy
review is chair by uh trustee Salivar.
She's absent. Chair goals and evaluation
trustee Mario.
No report at this point. Okay. Thank
you, Trusty Mario. Uh, grievance is
chaired by Trusty
Wilson. Okay. Thank you, Trusty Wilson.
TR committees on committee. Committee on
committees. Trusty Kaine. The uh
enterprise resource planning committee
has met and had some preliminary
discussions about uh that project. Okay.
Thank you, Trusty Kaine. Community
engagement. Trusty
Mesa, no updates at this moment. Okay.
Thank you. technology. Uh good time for
trust uh excuse me Mr. Crawl to come
forward. We are implementing a new
process for committees. Every committee
will be given a charge uh so that you
don't have to like wake up on Wednesday
and go what am I going to do with my
committee today? Uh working with the
administration we're coming up with
charge of work for each committee. It
does not limit what a committee can do.
It's a guide for what your committee
work can do. It will also enable the
administration to work with committees
to accomplish mutual goals and this is a
partnership and we can all benefit from
it. Please sir, I get one as well. Thank
you. And the first charge we're handing
out is for the technology committee and
that is chaired by trustee STOM. He is
not present. So, I'm going to ask Miss
Barnett if you would make sure that
Trustee Stoma is given an electronic
comp uh copy of his charge. Okay. Thank
you, trustees. If you have any comments
as we move through the committee
process, feel free to let me know. Uh it
needs to be collaborative and all of us
work together and to me to me to assist
where I'm able, but also not to get in
your
way. All right. We'll now move on to
section 8, consideration of the consent
agenda. Trustees, I'd like to consider
action item number 25 separately. This
will give us an opportunity to hear the
committee's recommendation and to
discuss if needed and then take a roll
call vote. Are there any items to be
pulled for discussion and separate
consideration other than item
25? And I'll start on the left. Trustee
Mario, any items to pull?
Yeah, I I'm sorry. I just I lost it. The
the one about the project, M. Uh
project, if you could give me the item
number, please. Yeah, I'll come back to
you. Yeah, come back to me. Okay. Trusty
Kane. I lost. No items. Okay. Thank you,
Trusty Mesa. No items, sir. Thank you
very much. Trusty Brousard, thank you.
Trusty
vote. Thank you. Trusty Wilson, thank
you. Trusty Wilson. Okay, Trusty Murio,
back on you. Yeah, sorry. Sorry about
that.
Take your time. Seriously,
it always seems longer when you're I
would have done and I just didn't
um I tell you what, I'm I'm just going
to go ahead and pass. I think Okay, I'll
get follow up on it. Thank you. Thank
you very much. General question.
All right, I'm going to ask board
council a question. Do I need
to say items one, two, three, four? Oh,
can I just say 1 through 24? Okay, thank
you. Okay, trustees, may I have a motion
to approve agenda consent agenda items
numbers 1 through
24. Have a motion by trustee Wilson. May
I have a second? Trusty
Rousard.
Any discussion? No discussion. I'll do a
roll call vote. Trustee Salavar is
absent. Trusty Wilson.
Yes. Thank you, Trusty Wilson. Trusty
Brousard. Yes. Thank you, Trusty
Brousard. Trusty Stoma is absent. Trusty
Mesa. Hi. Thank you, Trusty Mesa. Trusty
Mario. Yes. Thank you, Trusty Mario.
Trusty Vote.
I. Thank you, Trusty Vote. Trusty Kaine,
yes. Thank you, Trusty Kaine. Uh, Trusty
Sullivan votes I as well. The items pass
unanimously. The item, excuse me, one
item passes
unanimously. All right, trustees. We are
now going
to hear the financial report from Dr.
Ben.
Thank you, trustees. I feel like I've
probably shared all the finance stuff we
want to hear today, but obviously very
important uh for those that didn't get
to attend the budget hearing earlier is
what I was referring to or workshop. So,
um as a reminder, uh the financial
statements that you have in your packet
are through month end um April 30th. So,
uh when we come back in August, you'll
see uh two months then because right now
we're still closing out for uh the
preceding months. Uh again the system
continues to track revenues uh as
expected if not ahead of our
projections. And here you can see uh the
revenue projections or receipts as uh by
category. And we had received f 471
million in total revenue received
through uh month end of
April. When you're looking at
expenditures again we continue to track
uh a little bit down from previous
years. We have thus far at the end of
April $281 million in total
expenditures. Um payroll is typically
around $92 million to the end of the
fiscal year. Uh from this point um
looking at our accounts, we will
probably uh if we continue to trend in
this direction, we will probably have
budget authority remaining unspent um
from the previous year. but we'll be
able to give you a better idea of what
that is um at the August board meeting
and what that looks like. Uh when you're
looking at it from a year or excuse me
month-to-month comparison, uh again our
total budget revenue uh receivables that
we anticipate is 513 million which was
budgeted and then again we've received
almost 92% of that. So again still with
uh four months remaining in the fiscal
year uh we are well on track to uh reach
if not exceed budget uh expectations for
revenue and again this is where we were
compared to the same point at the same
month last year.
Uh looking at expenditures again as
forementioned uh we are tracking a
little bit down in expenditures to this
exact same period. Last year we had
spent approximately 58 almost 59% of the
budget. This year we're tracking about
57% of the budget actually spent. So
again slightly lower uh when we're
comparing month over month. Uh when
we're looking at the financial statement
uh I mentioned the variances uh previous
months to you. Um the variance is
totaling about $14.6 million
anticipated. Um as we discussed at the
budget, again don't want to foreshadow.
We do expect a new variance um this
summer uh which would be student
revenues. The good news is that re that
variance is on the positive side to the
tune of 5 million. So, we do anticipate
around uh 18 to$19 million of variances
in the in the positive direction, if you
will. When you're looking at
expenditures, uh to date, no significant
variances to report. Nothing um which is
always the good news on the expenditure
side. Uh we have $242 million in
expenditure uh through month end of
April. And again, no significant
variances outside of what was
anticipated.
Uh in your financial packet you also
have the balance sheet. You have the
statement of revenues and expenditures
which includes the Harvey recovery fund,
your balance sheet and the summary of
investment funds. Um as indicated we
still are uh tracking well above board
policy in relation to cash reserves. Um
holding uh in excess of 169 million in
cash reserves uh which is far above the
percentage required by board policy. And
again, we'll continue to track that and
have updates in August as to what that
might look like uh for next fiscal year.
Happy to entertain any questions that
the trustees or the chancellor may have.
Thank you. Any questions, trustees?
Seeing none. Thank you very much, Dr.
It's been a long day for you. Been
great. Thank you. Yes, sir. All right.
The board of trustees in accordance with
the Texas Open Meetings Act will move
into close session under one or more of
the following provisions. Section
551.071.
section
551.072, section
551.074, and section
551.076. We now move into close session
at 11:30 a.m.
Good. Uh, thank you. The regular meeting
is reconvening at 12:42. Let the record
reflect that trustee Miriam Salavar is
logged on virtually and will be u
participating in this
vote. May I have a motion to approve
agenda item number 25? So moved. Have a
motion by excuse me. I'm going to call
on trusty Wilson for the motion please.
Thank you chair. I move to approve the
second amendment amended executive
employment agreement between the Lonear
College system and Mario K. Castidio and
the compensation recommendations of the
goals and evaluation committee pursuant
to that agreement. Good. Trusty Maria,
would you like to second? Second. Yes.
Committee chair, turn that microphone
on. So you're on second. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Um let me just say that the
administrator this this item concerns
the contract for renewal contract for
the chancellor and the committee and the
full board
appreciates the leadership that the
chancellor has provided. The results
speak for
themselves. the goals that he has set
for this institution are extraordinary
and he is meeting and exceeding those
goals. So, chancellor, you have our full
support and commitment going forward for
us to do everything we can to support
you uh help this institution be
successful. So, with that, I'll do a
roll call vote and before I adjourn,
I'll ask if anyone has any other
comments. Um, so I have a motion and a
second. Any discussion? No discussion.
We'll do a roll call vote. Trustee
Salavar. I'm going to move on. Trusty
Wilson.
Trusty Wilson votes I. Trusty Brousard
yes. Trusty Brousard votes yes. Trusty
Stoma is absent. Trusty Mesa I. Trusty
Mesa votes yes. Trusty Mario I. Trusty
Mario votes yes. Trustee vote I. Trusty
vote votes yes. Trusty Kaine I. Trusty
Kane votes yes. Trustee
Salivar. We've lost her. She was right
there.
Um I'm going to take a little pause, but
we're still in
session. Heat. Heat.
Oh, good. Trusty Salivar, we've called
item 25 and we'd like to know if you
vote yes, no, or abstain.
I vote yes. Thank you, Trusty Salavar.
Trustee Salivar votes yes. I, Mike
Sullivan, vote yes as well. The item
passes unanimously. Congratulations to
the committee once again for their hard
work and the chancellor. It is on vote.
Thank you. That's all I'm going to say
or else I may cry. So, thank you
trustees. Next item on the agenda,
suggested future agenda items. Any
future agenda
items? See any. with no further
business. Oh, I'm sorry, Trusty
Brousard. Excuse me. Just that we have
that road trip coming up on June 25th, I
believe, is out to the out to the dairy
farm. Yes. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am.
Okay.
Correct. No meeting in July.
Is is is that going to
be going to all of the the properties?
No, sir. The purpose, in fact, I'll let
Trusty Brousard say what the purpose is.
It's a specific tour for one purpose.
Well, it's a to check out the history
and u if it's a historical of of of
importance to to the college. So, um,
we're going to check out, uh, that
location and and it's it's for all of
us, correct? Yes. It's, uh, and we're
leaving at 9:00, I believe, in the
morning. Is that right? Yes, ma'am.
9:00. And where, where are we meeting? I
can't remember. Here. We're meeting
right here. Yes.
Okay. Well, okay. We'll meet here at
this location June 25th. Okay. Thank
you. Yes, ma'am. You're welcome. Thank
you. With no further business to
discuss, this board meeting is now
adjourned at 12:48 p.m. Thank you.